.TH PPLX\-RESEARCH 1 "2026-03-16" "1.0.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pplx\-research \- research CLI powered by Perplexity Sonar API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pplx\-research
.I QUERY
[\fB\-m\fR \fIMODE\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fIRANGE\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fICODE\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fICODE\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR \fIINT\fR]
[\fB\-\-sources\fR \fITYPES\fR]
[\fB\-\-reasoning\-effort\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-return\-images\fR]
[\fB\-\-return\-related\-questions\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIURL\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pplx\-research
is a monolithic, versatile research orchestration tool built on the Perplexity
Sonar API. It goes beyond simple API wrapping to provide auto-classification of
queries, iterative gap analysis, and multi-perspective synthesis from diverse
source types.
.PP
The tool supports three research modes: a fast single-query
.B quick
mode, an iterative
.B deep
mode that identifies and fills knowledge gaps across multiple rounds, and a
.B synthesis
mode that gathers perspectives from academic papers, news, documentation,
forums, and code repositories.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Positional Arguments
.TP
.I QUERY
The research topic or question to investigate. Enclose in quotes if it contains
spaces or shell metacharacters.
.SS Mode
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mode\fR \fI{quick,deep,synthesis}\fR
Research mode. Default: \fBquick\fR.
See
.B MODES
below for details.
.SS Output Format
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR \fI{markdown,json,summary,plain}\fR
Output format. Default: \fBmarkdown\fR.
.RS
.TP
.B markdown
Structured markdown with headers and sections.
.TP
.B json
Machine-readable JSON object.
.TP
.B summary
Concise paragraph summary.
.TP
.B plain
Unformatted plain text.
.RE
.SS Scope
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-site\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR
Constrain search results to a specific domain (e.g., \fBreddit.com\fR,
\fBstackoverflow.com\fR).
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR
Exclude a domain from results. This flag may be repeated to exclude multiple
domains (e.g., \fB\-e example.com \-e spam.net\fR).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\-range\fR \fI{hour,day,week,month,year}\fR
Restrict results to documents published within the given time range.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-region\fR \fICODE\fR
Country or region code to bias results (e.g., \fBUS\fR, \fBUK\fR, \fBJP\fR,
\fBDE\fR).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-language\fR \fICODE\fR
ISO 639-1 language filter (e.g., \fBen\fR, \fBde\fR, \fBja\fR, \fBfr\fR).
.SS Depth and Sources
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-depth\fR \fIINT\fR
Iteration depth for
.B deep
and
.B synthesis
modes. Accepts values 1\(en5. Default: \fB3\fR. Higher values produce more
comprehensive reports at the cost of additional API calls and latency.
.TP
\fB\-\-sources\fR \fITYPES\fR
Comma-separated list of source types to query. Valid values:
\fBacademic\fR, \fBnews\fR, \fBdocs\fR, \fBforums\fR, \fBcode\fR, \fBall\fR.
Default: \fBall\fR. Example: \fB\-\-sources academic,news\fR.
.SS Reasoning
.TP
\fB\-\-reasoning\-effort\fR \fI{minimal,low,medium,high}\fR
Reasoning effort level passed to the Perplexity sonar-reasoning model. Only
relevant when using a reasoning-capable model. When unset, the API default
applies.
.SS Response Enrichment
.TP
.B \-\-return\-images
Include image results in the API response.
.TP
.B \-\-return\-related\-questions
Include a list of related follow-up questions in the response.
.SS Integration
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Write the final report to \fIFILE\fR in addition to printing to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-webhook\fR \fIURL\fR
HTTP POST the completed results to \fIURL\fR upon completion.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress all progress output and spinner. Only the final result is written to
stdout. Useful for piping output to other commands or scripts.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-auto\fR
Auto-classify the query and automatically select the optimal mode, depth, and
source types. Overrides explicit \fB\-\-mode\fR, \fB\-\-depth\fR, and
\fB\-\-sources\fR values when enabled.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B quick
Performs a single Perplexity API query and returns the result. Fastest mode;
suitable for factual lookups, definitions, and current-events queries.
.TP
.B deep
Iteratively identifies knowledge gaps in previous answers and issues follow-up
queries to fill them. Produces a comprehensive, structured research report.
Controlled by \fB\-\-depth\fR (default 3 iterations).
.TP
.B synthesis
Queries multiple source-type perspectives (academic, news, forums, etc.) and
synthesises them into a unified analysis. Best for comparisons, debates, and
topics where diverse viewpoints add value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic lookup:
.B pplx\-research "what is quantum entanglement"
.TP
Deep academic research with 4 iterations:
.B pplx\-research "transformer architecture" \-\-mode deep \-\-sources academic \-\-depth 4
.TP
Multi-perspective comparison, JSON output:
.B pplx\-research "React vs Vue performance" \-\-mode synthesis \-\-format json
.TP
Domain-restricted search, save to file:
.B pplx\-research "hiking trails near Asheville" \-\-site alltrails.com \-o report.md
.TP
Recent news only:
.B pplx\-research "latest AI safety research" \-\-time\-range week \-\-sources news
.TP
Auto-classify and run quietly for piping:
.B pplx\-research "compare Rust vs Go for systems programming" \-\-auto \-\-quiet | less
.TP
Exclude domains, filter by region:
.B pplx\-research "tax filing deadlines" \-e reddit.com \-e quora.com \-r US
.TP
Post result to webhook:
.B pplx\-research "competitor analysis" \-\-mode synthesis \-\-webhook https://hooks.example.com/research
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PERPLEXITY_API_KEY
Required. Your Perplexity API key. Obtain one at
.IR https://www.perplexity.ai/settings/api .
The tool will exit with an error if this variable is not set and no
.I ~/.env
file provides it.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.env
If present, this file is read for environment variables including
.BR PERPLEXITY_API_KEY .
Standard
.I key=value
format, one per line. Lines beginning with
.B #
are treated as comments.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by kleinpanic. Source and issue tracker:
.I https://github.com/kleinpanic/pplx-research
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR jq (1)
